https://www.homenethowto.com/ports-and-nat/public-and-private-ip-addresses/

all IP addresses beginning with “192.168” which belong to a special category of IP addresses that are commonly called
Private IP addresses. These Private IP addresses are reserved for local use within LAN networks.
Two other such Private address spaces exist:->
1. Any address beginning with “10.”
2. All addresses beginning with “172.16” up to “172.31” for example 172.16 or 172.23 or 172.31

As mentioned earlier, the above special addresses are called Private addresses. They cannot be used on the Internet, 
they can only be used within local networks. If you try to use Private addresses on the Internet then your Internet 
Service Provider will block your traffic automatically, sensing that the traffic is coming from a Private IP address.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.homenethowto.com/ports-and-nat/address-translation/

When a computer wants to communicate it sends off a packet with data. The packet always has two IP addresses 
inscribed in the envelope or header of the packet.

Source Address, which is the IP address of the sender. This has to be entered into the packet so the receiver knows 
where it should send its replies, like a “return address”

Destination address, the IP address of the receiver that the packet is being sent to

In a home network where a computer wants to talk to something on the Internet, the source address will be a Private 
IP address on the LAN. The destination address of the packet will be a Public IP address of a server on the Internet.
If that packet is sent to the Internet then the ISP will block and throw away the packet since it has a private IP 
address as its source.
To fix this problem the home router steps in and translates the source address from a private address to a public 
IP address. The router itself has a public IP address on its outside WAN interface. It got that public IP address 
from the ISP. The router will simply let every client on the inside LAN share that single public IP address.
If several clients are operating at the same time on the LAN then it is both possible and likely that several 
computers want to browse at the same time to the Internet. Then the home router will keep track of what traffic 
that belongs to which computer. This lets the router know which inside LAN computer that the returning reply 
traffic should be sent to.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.homenethowto.com/ports-and-nat/ports-addresses-for-programs/

a single server can run multiple services or programs at the same time. For example, the server could run a Web 
Service, a DNS Service, an FTP Service and many other services. All of those services could be running 
simultaneously. And since they are running on a single server they also share the single IP address that the server 
is configured with.

So the server must have a way to know which service that each packet is meant for so that it can look at incoming 
data traffic and hand over the traffic to the correct service.

The solution that is used in network communication is something called Ports. These ports are used to give 
addresses to different services.

A computer can manage just fine with a single IP address, but it can listen on many ports simultaneously. Each 
program that wants to be able to receive network connections and data packets will require its own unique port.

The programs and services that you start on a computer will tell the OS (Windows, Mac OS X etc) which ports that 
the service would like to listen to. The OS will then start listening for traffic to that port, and if any such 
traffic arrives at the computer then the OS will forward that traffic to the correct program.