https://www.homenethowto.com/basics/introduction-home-networks/
WAN:
The outside is the Internet connection, which connects to a port on the router which is often called the WAN port.
means Wide Area Network, or a network connection that stretches out over a wider geographical area, such as an 
internet connection between a home and the Internet Service Provider (ISP)

LAN:
The inside is the local network or LAN. A router often has multiple ports that belong to the inside where you can 
connect different home computers, printers and other devices.
stands for Local Area Network, a network with limited coverage area, such as a network within a home or a single
company, often with a single owner for the whole LAN network.


These are the main components of a Home Router:

1.An integrated Switch with a number of LAN ports where you can connect computers and other devices using network cables
2.An Access Point with one or more antennas to which wireless devices can connect
3.Often there is a built-in modem, at least if the Home Router is meant to be connected to Cable or 
  DSL-based Internet connections. The WAN port of the router is then connected to the integrated modem.
4.The actual Router function which forwards traffic between the inside and outside networks.

network traffic doesn’t actually always have to pass through the built-in Router function.Traffic only has to be 
handled by the internal Router if the traffic is either going to the Internet or if the computers are requesting 
data from one of the Services that are running on the Home Router.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.homenethowto.com/basics/routing-introduction-to-ip-addresses/
#
IP addresses are the type of addresses that computers use to send data traffic between each other. 
The IP addresses can be compared somewhat to street addresses in real life.

A home router that is sending out traffic to the Internet doesn’t have to know exactly where www.homenethowto.com is
located. All it needs to know is that the general direction it needs to send the traffic towards is the outside 
Internet connection, because that is where all networks except for the inside LAN network are located.
Then the task of sending the traffic towards the destination is delegated to the ISP router that the home router is 
connected to. The ISP router will also look at the traffic without knowing exactly where the destination is. 
But it will have more detailed knowledge than the home router and will also have more possible routes to choose from.

In this way computer traffic is sent or routed over the Internet closer and closer to its destination via various 
ISPs’ routers. The closer to the destination that the traffic gets, the more detailed knowledge of the destination 
the routers will have. Eventually the traffic will end up at a router that has a direct connection to the 
destination, which could be a web server or similar. That last router in the chain will then deliver the traffic to
the web server.
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.homenethowto.com/basics/ip-addresses/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hb2yTNT2rBU

an IP address consists of two main parts: IP network and addresses within the IP network. 
The addresses within the IP network are also called the host addresses because different hosts or computers have
different unique addresses within the IP network.
#1
The IP network corresponds to more general parts of a full street address, such as City, Postal Code and Street name.
#2
The Host Addresses within the IP network correspond to specific house numbers on a street.

#
So how do you know if two IP addresses are on the same IP network or on two different IP networks? 
The answer is within something called a Subnet Mask. An IP address is always combined with a Subnet Mask,
and it is the Subnet Mask that determines which part of the IP address that belongs to the IP network and which 
part that belongs to host addresses.

The next computer below belongs to the IP network 211.139.157.0. It is using the host address 9 on the IP network,
and its IP address is 211.139.157.9

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://www.homenethowto.com/basics/default-gateway-finding-other-ip-networks/

A computer that has an IP address and a Subnet Mask can talk directly with other computers that share the same 
Subnet Mask and have IP addresses within the same IP network.
But what about a computer that wants to talk with something that has an IP address on another IP network?
ans: default gateway

To find its local router the computer needs a so-called Default Gateway, sometimes simply called a Gateway.
A Default Gateway is always a router that can connect to more than one IP network and can route traffic between 
those IP networks. The router will have its own IP address on each IP network that it connects to.

A computer can only talk with other IP addresses within its own IP network. So for the computer to be able to 
communicate via a router, at least one of the router’s IP addresses must belong to the same IP network as the computer.

When the router hands out an IP address and a Subnet Mask to the computer it also sends out its own IP address to 
the computer and tells the computer to use that address as its Default Gateway.


